RHIDP-3972 RHIDP-3973 Enabling and giving access to the Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) feature (#631)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/authorization/proc-enabling-the-rbac-plugin.adoc

> [id='proc-enabling-rbac_{context}']

Author: ```suggestion
[id='enabling-and-giving-access-to-rbac']
```

= Enabling and giving access to the Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) feature

The Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) feature is disabled by default.
Enable the RBAC plugin and declare policy administrators to start using RBAC features.

The permission policies for users and groups in the {product-short} are managed by permission policy administrators. Only permission policy administrators can access the Role-Based Access Control REST API.

.Prerequisites
* You have link:{linkadminguide}#assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.
* You have link:{authentication-book-title}[enabled an authentication provider].

.Procedure
. The RBAC plugin is installed but disabled by default.
To enable the  `./dynamic-plugins/dist/janus-idp-backstage-plugin-rbac` plugin, edit your `dynamic-plugins.yaml` with following content.
+
.`dynamic-plugins.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml]
----
plugins:
  - package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/janus-idp-backstage-plugin-rbac
    disabled: false
----
+
See link:{installing-and-viewing-dynamic-plugins-url}[{installing-and-viewing-dynamic-plugins-title}].

> . Declare policy administrators to allow a certain limited number of authenticated users to configure RBAC policies by using the REST API or the Web UI, rather than editing the CSV file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Declare policy administrators to enable a select number of authenticated users to configure RBAC policies through the REST API or Web UI, instead of modifying the CSV file directly.
```

> The actual policies are defined in a separate CSV file and referenced in the app-config-rhdh ConfigMap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The permissions can be defined in a CSV file that is referenced in the app-config-rhdh ConfigMap, or they can be created via REST API or Web UI.
```

> The permissions can be defined in a separate CSV file that is referenced in the app-config-rhdh ConfigMap, or they can be created via REST API or Web UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The permissions can be specified in a separate CSV file referenced in the `app-config-rhdh` ConfigMap, or permissions can be created using the REST API or Web UI.
```

+

> To declare users such as _<your_policy_administrator_name>_ as policy administrators, edit your custom {product-short} ConfigMap, such as `app-config-rhdh`, and add following lines to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To declare users such as _<your_policy_administrator_name>_ as policy administrators, edit your custom {product-short} ConfigMap, such as `app-config-rhdh`, and add following code to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content:
```

+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml,subs=+quotes]
----
permission:
  enabled: true
  rbac:
    admin:
      users:
        - name: user:default/__<your_policy_administrator_name>__
----

.Verification
. Sign out from the existing {product} session and log in again using the declared policy administrator account.
. With RBAC enabled, most features are disabled by default.

> .. Navigate to the Catalog page in {product-very-short}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Navigate to the *Catalog* page in {product-very-short}.
```

> The Create button is not visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Create* button is not visible.
```

> You are not allowed to create new components.

Author: That would be technically inaccurate

> You are not allowed to create new components.

Author: ```suggestion
You cannot create new components.
```

.. Navigate to the API page.

> The Register button is not visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Register* button is not visible.
```
